README.md, before:

# epitech.js

Wrapper for Epitech intranet for NodeJS with complete TypeScript typings.

## Install

```bash
npm install epitech.js
```

## Getting started

You might want to take a look at files in [`src/examples`](./src/examples).

## Usage

### Login to the intranet

Go into `https://intra.epitech.eu/admin/autolog` and grab your autologin link.

Import the `RawIntra` class, that provides you a low-abstraction access to the Intranet endpoints:
```ts
import { RawIntra } from "epitech.js";  // TypeScript / ES6
// or
const { RawIntra } = require("epitech.js");  // Classic NodeJS
```

```ts
const intra = new RawIntra({
    autologin: "https://intra.epitech.eu/auth-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
});
```

### Raw classes (bindings)

Here is a table matching each method of the raw classes and the corresponding endpoint:

#### RawIntra (`intra.epitech.eu`)

| Binding                        | Endpoint                                                       |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getDashboard`                 | `/`                                                            |
| `getUser`                      | `/user/:user` or `/user`                                       |
| `getUserNetsoul`               | `/user/:user/netsoul`                                          |
| `getUserPartners`              | `/user/:user/binome`                                           |
| `getUserEducationalOverview`   | none (scraped from `/user/:user/#!/pedago`)                    |
| `getUserAbsences`              | `/user/:user/absences`                                         |
| `getPlanning`                  | `/planning/load`                                               |
| `getModuleBoard`               | `/module/board`                                                |
| `filterCourses`                | `/course/filter`                                               |
| `getModule`                    | `/module/:year/:module/:instance`                              |
| `getModuleRegistered`          | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/registered`                   |
| `getActivity`                  | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity`                    |
| `getActivityAppointments`      | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity/rdv`                |
| `getProject`                   | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity/project`            |
| `getProjectRegistered`         | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/registered`              |
| `getProjectUnregistered`       | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/exportunregistered`      |
| `getProjectFiles`              | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/file`                    |
| `getEventRegistered`           | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/:event/registered`               |
| `getStages`                    | `/stage`                                                       |
| `getAutologin`                 | `/admin/autologin`                                             |


### Classes

#### `RawIntra`

##### `getDashboard(): Promise<RawDashboard>`

Get the dashboard informations.

##### `getUser(login?: string): Promise<RawUser>`

Get the user overall informations.

If login is not provided, the current user will be used.

If login is provided and is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserNetsoul(login: string): Promise<RawUser>`

Get the user netsoul stats. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserPartners(login: string): Promise<RawUserPartnersOutput>`

Get the other users with which the user has been with in projects and/or activities. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserEducationalOverview(login: string): Promise<RawUserEducationalUpdate[]>`

Get the educational history of the specified user (courses changes, semester changes, location changes, ...). If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

Note: The current implementation relies on JSON extraction and scraping techniques since no endpoint is available.

##### `getUserAbsences(login: string): Promise<RawUserAbsencesOutput>`

Get the absences of the user. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getPlanning(start?: Date, end?: Date): Promise<RawPlanningElement[]>`

Gets the planning between the specified dates, both parameters are required to shiw planning in a range.

Otherwise, the full year planning will be loaded.

##### `getModuleBoard(start: Date, end: Date): Promise<RawModuleBoardActivity[]>`

Get every modules' activities between the start date and the end date.

##### `filterCourses(filter: RawCourseFilters): Promise<RawCourseFilterOutput>`

Get the modules matching the specified filter.

Filter format:
```ts
{
    preload?: boolean;
    locations?: string[],
    courses?: `${string}/${string}`[],
    scolaryears?: number[]
}
```

Example usage:
```ts
const coursesPromise = intra.filterCourses({
    locations: [ "FR", "FR/PAR" ],
    courses: [ "bachelor/classic" ],
    scolaryears: [ 2021 ]
});
```

##### `getModule({ scolaryear, module, instance }): Promise<RawModule>`

Get the specified module.

##### `getModuleByUrl(url: ModuleUrl | string): Promise<RawModule>`

Get the specified module by url.

##### `getModuleRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance }): Promise<RawModuleRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the registered users for a module.

##### `getModuleRegisteredByUrl(url: ModuleUrl | string): Promise<RawModuleRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the registered users for a module by module url.

##### `getActivity({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawActivity>`

Get the activity informations.

##### `getActivityByUrl(url): Promise<RawActivity>`

Get the activity informations by activity url.

##### `getActivityAppointments({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawModuleActivityAppointment>`

Get the activity appointments (rdv).

##### `getActivityAppointmentsByUrl(url): Promise<RawModuleActivityAppointment>`

Get the activity appointments (rdv) by activity url.

##### `getProject({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProject>`

Get the project.

##### `getProjectByUrl(url): Promise<RawProject>`

Get the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProjectRegisteredGroup[]>`

Get the registered groups for the project.

##### `getProjectRegisteredByUrl(url): Promise<RawProjectRegisteredGroup[]>`

Get the registered groups for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectUnregistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<string[]>`

Get an array of unregistered users logins for the project.

##### `getProjectUnregisteredByUrl(url): Promise<string[]>`

Get an array of unregistered users logins for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectFiles({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProjectFile[]>`

Get an array of files for the project.

##### `getProjectFilesByUrl(url): Promise<RawProjectFile[]>`

Get an array of files for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getEventRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity, event }): Promise<RawEventRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the users registered to the event.

##### `getEventRegisteredByUrl(eventUrl): Promise<RawEventRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the users registered to the event by url.

##### `getStages(): Promise<RawStagesOutput>`

Get the internships for current user.

##### `getAutologin(): Promise<string>`

Get autologin link for the current session.

##### `registerProjectByUrl(projectUrl): Promise<void>`

Register to project by project url.

##### `registerProjectGroupByUrl(projectUrl, { title: string, membersLogins: string[] }): Promise<void>`

Register a project group by project url.

##### `destroyProjectGroupByUrl(projectUrl, groupCode?: string): Promise<void>`

Destroy a project group by project url and group code (searched if not specified).

##### `joinGroupByUrl(projectUrl, userLogin?: string): Promise<void>`

Make the specified user join a project group by project url.

If user login is not specified, current user login is used. Additional permissions might be required if user login is not the current user.

##### `declineJoinGroupByUrl(projectUrl): Promise<void>`

Decline joining the inviting group for this project, by project url.

##### `leaveGroupByUrl(projectUrl, userLogin?: string): Promise<void>`

Make the specified user leave a project group by project url.

If user login is not specified, current user login is used. Additional permissions might be required if user login is not the current user.

##### `solveUrl(url: string, validTypes: string[] = ["all"]): string`

Get the underlying route from specified intranet URL. Will strip the autologin part if present.

Valid types: `"all", "module", "project", "activity"`.

Unless `"all"` is specified in the valid types, path checks will be performed.

In case of no match with any valid types provided, if possible, a path transformation will be attempted (e.g. `activity` -> `project`).

If url doesn't match any valid types and the path transformation fails, an error is thrown.

##### `solveModuleUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance }): ActivityUrl`

Get the module route using the provided informations.

##### `solveActivityUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): ActivityUrl`

Get the activity route using the provided informations.

##### `solveProjectUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): ProjectUrl`

Get the project route using the provided informations.

##### `getRequestProvider(): IntraRequestProvider`

Get the request provider that performs the API calls.


#### `IntraRequestProvider`

##### `get(route: string, config?: AxionRequestConfig): Promise<AxiosResponse>`

##### `post(route: string, body: any, config?: AxionRequestConfig): Promise<AxiosResponse>`

Commit message:

added register and unregisterEventByUrl to readme

README.md, after:

# epitech.js

Wrapper for Epitech intranet for NodeJS with complete TypeScript typings.

## Install

```bash
npm install epitech.js
```

## Getting started

You might want to take a look at files in [`src/examples`](./src/examples).

## Usage

### Login to the intranet

Go into `https://intra.epitech.eu/admin/autolog` and grab your autologin link.

Import the `RawIntra` class, that provides you a low-abstraction access to the Intranet endpoints:
```ts
import { RawIntra } from "epitech.js";  // TypeScript / ES6
// or
const { RawIntra } = require("epitech.js");  // Classic NodeJS
```

```ts
const intra = new RawIntra({
    autologin: "https://intra.epitech.eu/auth-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
});
```

### Raw classes (bindings)

Here is a table matching each method of the raw classes and the corresponding endpoint:

#### RawIntra (`intra.epitech.eu`)

| Binding                        | Endpoint                                                       |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `getDashboard`                 | `/`                                                            |
| `getUser`                      | `/user/:user` or `/user`                                       |
| `getUserNetsoul`               | `/user/:user/netsoul`                                          |
| `getUserPartners`              | `/user/:user/binome`                                           |
| `getUserEducationalOverview`   | none (scraped from `/user/:user/#!/pedago`)                    |
| `getUserAbsences`              | `/user/:user/absences`                                         |
| `getPlanning`                  | `/planning/load`                                               |
| `getModuleBoard`               | `/module/board`                                                |
| `filterCourses`                | `/course/filter`                                               |
| `getModule`                    | `/module/:year/:module/:instance`                              |
| `getModuleRegistered`          | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/registered`                   |
| `getActivity`                  | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity`                    |
| `getActivityAppointments`      | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity/rdv`                |
| `getProject`                   | `/module/:year/:module/:instance/:activity/project`            |
| `getProjectRegistered`         | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/registered`              |
| `getProjectUnregistered`       | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/exportunregistered`      |
| `getProjectFiles`              | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/project/file`                    |
| `getEventRegistered`           | `/module/:year/:mod/:ins/:act/:event/registered`               |
| `getStages`                    | `/stage`                                                       |
| `getAutologin`                 | `/admin/autologin`                                             |


### Classes

#### `RawIntra`

##### `getDashboard(): Promise<RawDashboard>`

Get the dashboard informations.

##### `getUser(login?: string): Promise<RawUser>`

Get the user overall informations.

If login is not provided, the current user will be used.

If login is provided and is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserNetsoul(login: string): Promise<RawUser>`

Get the user netsoul stats. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserPartners(login: string): Promise<RawUserPartnersOutput>`

Get the other users with which the user has been with in projects and/or activities. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getUserEducationalOverview(login: string): Promise<RawUserEducationalUpdate[]>`

Get the educational history of the specified user (courses changes, semester changes, location changes, ...). If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

Note: The current implementation relies on JSON extraction and scraping techniques since no endpoint is available.

##### `getUserAbsences(login: string): Promise<RawUserAbsencesOutput>`

Get the absences of the user. If the specified user is not the current user, you might need additional permissions.

##### `getPlanning(start?: Date, end?: Date): Promise<RawPlanningElement[]>`

Gets the planning between the specified dates, both parameters are required to shiw planning in a range.

Otherwise, the full year planning will be loaded.

##### `getModuleBoard(start: Date, end: Date): Promise<RawModuleBoardActivity[]>`

Get every modules' activities between the start date and the end date.

##### `filterCourses(filter: RawCourseFilters): Promise<RawCourseFilterOutput>`

Get the modules matching the specified filter.

Filter format:
```ts
{
    preload?: boolean;
    locations?: string[],
    courses?: `${string}/${string}`[],
    scolaryears?: number[]
}
```

Example usage:
```ts
const coursesPromise = intra.filterCourses({
    locations: [ "FR", "FR/PAR" ],
    courses: [ "bachelor/classic" ],
    scolaryears: [ 2021 ]
});
```

##### `getModule({ scolaryear, module, instance }): Promise<RawModule>`

Get the specified module.

##### `getModuleByUrl(url: ModuleUrl | string): Promise<RawModule>`

Get the specified module by url.

##### `getModuleRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance }): Promise<RawModuleRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the registered users for a module.

##### `getModuleRegisteredByUrl(url: ModuleUrl | string): Promise<RawModuleRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the registered users for a module by module url.

##### `getActivity({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawActivity>`

Get the activity informations.

##### `getActivityByUrl(url): Promise<RawActivity>`

Get the activity informations by activity url.

##### `getActivityAppointments({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawModuleActivityAppointment>`

Get the activity appointments (rdv).

##### `getActivityAppointmentsByUrl(url): Promise<RawModuleActivityAppointment>`

Get the activity appointments (rdv) by activity url.

##### `getProject({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProject>`

Get the project.

##### `getProjectByUrl(url): Promise<RawProject>`

Get the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProjectRegisteredGroup[]>`

Get the registered groups for the project.

##### `getProjectRegisteredByUrl(url): Promise<RawProjectRegisteredGroup[]>`

Get the registered groups for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectUnregistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<string[]>`

Get an array of unregistered users logins for the project.

##### `getProjectUnregisteredByUrl(url): Promise<string[]>`

Get an array of unregistered users logins for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getProjectFiles({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): Promise<RawProjectFile[]>`

Get an array of files for the project.

##### `getProjectFilesByUrl(url): Promise<RawProjectFile[]>`

Get an array of files for the project by project or activity url.

##### `getEventRegistered({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity, event }): Promise<RawEventRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the users registered to the event.

##### `getEventRegisteredByUrl(eventUrl): Promise<RawEventRegisteredUser[]>`

Get the users registered to the event by url.

##### `getStages(): Promise<RawStagesOutput>`

Get the internships for current user.

##### `getAutologin(): Promise<string>`

Get autologin link for the current session.

##### `registerEventByUrl(eventUrl): Promise<void>`

Register to event by event url.

##### `unregisterEventByUrl(eventUrl): Promise<void>`

Unregister to event by event url.

##### `registerProjectByUrl(projectUrl): Promise<void>`

Register to project by project url.

##### `registerProjectGroupByUrl(projectUrl, { title: string, membersLogins: string[] }): Promise<void>`

Register a project group by project url.

##### `destroyProjectGroupByUrl(projectUrl, groupCode?: string): Promise<void>`

Destroy a project group by project url and group code (searched if not specified).

##### `joinGroupByUrl(projectUrl, userLogin?: string): Promise<void>`

Make the specified user join a project group by project url.

If user login is not specified, current user login is used. Additional permissions might be required if user login is not the current user.

##### `declineJoinGroupByUrl(projectUrl): Promise<void>`

Decline joining the inviting group for this project, by project url.

##### `leaveGroupByUrl(projectUrl, userLogin?: string): Promise<void>`

Make the specified user leave a project group by project url.

If user login is not specified, current user login is used. Additional permissions might be required if user login is not the current user.

##### `solveUrl(url: string, validTypes: string[] = ["all"]): string`

Get the underlying route from specified intranet URL. Will strip the autologin part if present.

Valid types: `"all", "module", "project", "activity"`.

Unless `"all"` is specified in the valid types, path checks will be performed.

In case of no match with any valid types provided, if possible, a path transformation will be attempted (e.g. `activity` -> `project`).

If url doesn't match any valid types and the path transformation fails, an error is thrown.

##### `solveModuleUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance }): ActivityUrl`

Get the module route using the provided informations.

##### `solveActivityUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): ActivityUrl`

Get the activity route using the provided informations.

##### `solveProjectUrl({ scolaryear, module, instance, activity }): ProjectUrl`

Get the project route using the provided informations.

##### `getRequestProvider(): IntraRequestProvider`

Get the request provider that performs the API calls.


#### `IntraRequestProvider`

##### `get(route: string, config?: AxionRequestConfig): Promise<AxiosResponse>`

##### `post(route: string, body: any, config?: AxionRequestConfig): Promise<AxiosResponse>`
